# Interactive-Ticket-Booking-System-Using-Shell
The uploaded directory contains an executable .sh file - ticketing.sh, which provides for an interactive ticket booking system. The ticket booking system presents an interactive interface to the user to choose any of the following splendid functionalities: display all movies and their respective show times, fast booking (intelligently selects the best* available free seats), manually select free seats and search for movies by showtime or title. The program interacts with two text files. One, ticketlist.txt, which it reads when launched to obtain specifics of a movie (movie title, showtimes, availability). Two, seating.txt, which contains the visual representation of booked and unbooked seats for each movie screening at the theatre (A cross, X indicates that the seat is booked and an underscore, _ indicates that the seat is available). For simplicity, the theatre has been taken to have five rows and four columns (this can be generalzied to any case as demanded). The program further displays a unique feature in performing rigorous input validations and even writing updates to concerned text files, so that these may reflect the changes made. 

To run the ticketing.sh file, simply execute it from the terminal as ./ticketing.sh (make sure to change the permission levels to enable execution). Also ensure that the ticketinglist.txt and seating.txt files are located in the same directory as ticketing.sh at execution time. (Note: In case it is wished to add additional fields to the ticketinglist.txt and the seating.txt files, scrutinize carefully the pattern in which data has already been listed and then insert new data as required. Make changes to both the files to ensure consistency)

*best: Centralized seats and those nearer to the screen are considered superior to corner seats or those farther away from the screen
